So we're going to move to
our train drawings file, and
there again should be nothing in there
yet, and we're going to write everything.
So if we do it the same way as before,
const tf,
and we're going to require tensorflow,
the node gpu,
that's gonna be needed to actually
run the training, and we're going
to be able to import some of the functions
that we wrote in our get data file.
So we're going to load or
to import loadData,
so okay, loadData, okay, getTrainData.
And then we have geTestData as well, and
we are going to oops, oops,
require that from our get data file.
So that should be our three main
functions that we're going to need.
And then we also need to
import the model itself.
So const model, and
we're gonna require create model here.
So at this point,
we should have our kind of functions
that are gonna help us load the data and
only retrieve the test set and
we also have access to the model itself.
So then we can start
creating our function.
Okay, so I called it run, but maybe
let's call it train, makes more sense.
So we have const train and
it's going be an async function.
So like this.
And first of all,
we're going to load our data.
So we load the data, and
if we remember what this
does here is that it's
calling the loadImages here.
Okay, and what we're going to do,
is then we're going to be able to actually
get our images, so trainImages here, and
then we're going to get
the labels as well.
It's gonna be trainLabels and
that will be from getTrainingData.
Oops, yeah, getTrainData, sorry.
We're loading it and
then we're only requiring
the training image in the training label.
And then what we can do before we,
actually no we can do that now.
So then, if you remember from yesterday,
the method to call to train
the model is called .fit.
So if we do a wait, and
then model.fit, and
the first two arguments
are gonna be training data and
training label, so here will
trainImages and then trainLabels.
And then there's a few extra parameters.
So if you remember from yesterday as well,
what epochs are so
epoch is just the number of times or
the number of steps that the training
model is going to go through.
So here for epochs, let's say we're
going to do, how many do I have here?
10, okay, we're gonna do 10 steps to start
with, and then again, you can change that.
The more epochs you have,
the longer it's going to train.
But also you might have better accuracy.
And if you use a lower number, you might
have lower accuracy but it go faster.
So again, it will depend.
There's so
many different parameters because it also
depends on number of images that you have.
Okay, so we have epochs and
we also need a batchSize.
So we have a batchSize.
That's the number of images that are going
to be used for each of the training step.
I picked five we can
change that later as well.
And then the third argument that you can
pass it as well is a validationSplit.
And what that means, I'm gonna declare it,
we're gonna use 0.2.
ValidationSplit, yeah, and
that is different from the testing part.
So the validationSplit means
that here we're gonna use 20% of
our training images to actually
validate that it predicts
the right label before we even
go into the testing set as well.
So testing, when you run into the testing
of a model it's more about feeding
it images never seen before and
see if it actually has the right label.
And the validation is using
the training data already.
So you're going through the process,
you're using the training data,
you're learning from it, and through each
of the step, you're using kind of 20% or
here, yes, here 20% of your training data,
and you're just checking, okay,
I just gave you that training data do you
recognize the data you've already seen?
And if already that's good, then
the testing set should do a even better
evaluation because it's
given a data it hasn't seen.
So, this is not required,
but usually I guess it's,
I guess it would be
good to pass it anyway.
To kind of train our model with
data it's already seen and
then we can do the testing part of it.
So here again, this fit method
is going to do the training.
And now if we move on to the testing, you
can copy the line that you had above where
we were requiring the training images and
training labels.
So instead of calling it from trainImages,
we have testImages and
then testLabels and
we're calling a function getTestData.
So this is going to get our
objects of tensors, images and
labels from the test set from under
our test folder in our data folder.
And the way to do the testing here is
going to be to call the evaluate method.
So first we can call a function or
a variable called evalOutput and
we're going to call model.evaluate and
we're going to pass it these
testImages and testLabels.
So testImages and then testLabels.
And at this point, what is useful
is to actually then log this into
the terminal so
that when we run the training process,
we'll have an output every time that we
tests things and we'll be able to see
how the accuracy changes over the courses
of the course of the training process.
So the way that we can do this is maybe
we're gonna create a variable called loss,
and it's going to have the evalOutput,
the first element of the evalOutput.
And then there's a method you can do to
extract the data that's called dataSync.
And we're going to get the first value
of that as well, and then toFixed3.
And I mean, we can see even if we don't
use that, what's coming back of it, but
that's the way that I had it.
And then the accuracy is the second
element of that evaluation output.
So here if we change to accuracy,
we have evalOutput the first element, and
we can do the rest just to format
the numbers in the same way.
And then we can have a console.log and
we can have,
maybe we can have two just
to format it properly.
So we can do have loss, and
then we can pass that as loss here, and
then below we can have accuracy,
accuracy, okay.
So I'm tempted at this point,
there's another step,
but maybe let's first check
that it even runs, okay.
So here, if you call your train function,
let's see if at least we're not
getting any error, hopefully.
Okay, so if you're at this point and
we're calling train,
you can go to your terminal, and
the way to run this is to do node and
then you should have train-drawings.js.
If we run this, no, okay, so I know why.
So here it's complaining because
when we declared our one hot tensor,
it's telling you it must be an int 32,
but actually we passed it for 32.
So it's something where I would try to
improvise and see what it would change.
But what I like sometimes is that
even if you do trial and error,
tensor flow will tell you what's wrong.
So if we go back to our,
it probably would be in our getData file.
So here where we're creating
one hot tensor for the labels,
we just need to change it to int 32,
instead of 32 for
both, for both training data and
then test data as well.
So once this is done, it seemed to,
hopefully that will work.
So if we run node train-drawings.js again,
okay, so it is going through sorry.
So another thing that I miss coded here,
I can fix that error coz I wanna
talk about what's up there.
But here I just need to,
actually I'm gonna do it now.
So instead of I wrote model.evaluation,
but this is model.evaluate.
I think the autocomplete was probably,
didn't help me here.
Okay, so what's happening here is
that we have trained our model.
We haven't saved it yet, that will be
what's happening after, but here, yeah, so
I was right here I didn't call
any await or anything, so
it console logged everything
at the same time anyway.
So here we can see that, if you remember,
in terms of number of epochs I believe
we had 10 and we can see here, so
you have the output of, okay,
the first step of the training process.
So one out of 10 we are getting here an
accuracy of 0.49, which is not even half,
so it is we're not doing very well,
and then a very high loss.
So I'm actually not exactly sure what
these are compared to acccuracy and loss.
But usually I look at these ones here.
And the issue as well is that as you see,
when we go through the subsequent steps
of the training process, so epoch 2, 3,
the value actually doesn't change,
it stays the same.
So there is definitely here
something that we need to change and
we can experiment a little bit with that.
And at the end of the last training
process, we have only an accuracy of 0.5.
So at this point,
we're not gonna tweak our model yet.
We're probably going to keep
going with the exercise to have
our full implementation ready.
And then we are going to tweak some
parameters and then retrain it and
see how it impacts also
the experience in the UI.